were there actually updates
in physics maybe mid-century
that were not disclosed to the public well i
mean it quieted down because nobody ever got
anywhere or it quieted it down because
it did get somewhere and it went black
ladies and gentlemen it's finally here the much
anticipated conversation with eric weinstein and
hal put off the world's most brilliant physics
mind of our time is the son of the country's most
prominent and important anti-gravity researcher of
the 1950s i don't know what any of this is hal is
an electrical engineer and laser physicist former
nsa and cia hal was a senior advisor to atip the
official government ufo investigation program that
ran from 2007 to 2012 out of bigelow aerospace he
also founded and ran the cia's psychic spy program
called stargate out of stanford research institute
in the 70s does our government have a protocol to
wield stigma as a tool for keeping its programs
secret certainly there are parts of the government
who consider that to be their job many of you are
already familiar with my colleague eric weinstein
he's a mathematician who's dared to construct a
unified theory of physics called geometric unity
he's also a prominent yet rebellious cultural
commentator who founded the intellectual dark
web i still carry the sense of i cannot believe
i am sitting here discussing visitations from
some intelligent life that we don't understand
this interview is neither for the queasy
nor the faint of mind there are more videos
some are better how much better as good as you
could probably want for many of your comments i
haven't cut much from this interview i left
it pretty raw long form and unedited it's
a deep technical dive into the physics of ufos
along with the implications of their prominence
in the modern zeitgeist that is that we are
either being subjected to the most interesting
effective and weird government psyop
of all time or our top scientists are
missing something fundamental about the nature
of reality and finally hal gets about as candid
as he's ever been about the government's psychic
spy program stargate while eric who's a little
more skeptical of parapsychology tries not to
throw up we ran 70 30 instead of 50 50. sorry
but if you want to do it feel free to do it i've
told you how to do it so you can just go do it
okay you don't have a lot of room to move you
either have to postulate new physics or you have
to say this isn't material everything here is
bold my conclusion is that there is something
there i don't like losing to jesse it's horrible
losing him on ufos i don't want to lose it to him
a second time but something is wildly off so with
that out of the way hit subscribe and get ready to
unlearn everything you thought you knew about the
material world with eric weinstein and hal put off
different parts have different
activities but you know that don't you
the intelligence committee has ordered the
director of national intelligence and the
secretary of defense to deliver a report on
the mysterious sightings of unidentified aerial
phenomena uap more commonly known as ufos the
reason i found the report fascinating was because
it reeked of conflict i could clearly detect a
voice an authorial voice that wanted to disclose
more and one that said over my dead body and
the over my dead body people seem to be stronger
but losing ground the first branch of the decision
tree is is it stuff that is unintentionally
in the air versus stuff that is intentionally in
the air the unintentional stuff was broken into
two categories that was clutter and atmospheric
effects the stuff that is intentionally in the
air was broken into the next branch which was
us not us not us was broken into two things
known others and unknown others and that other
is intentionally in the air not us not anyone we
know not necessarily aliens could be coming out
of the ocean could be time travel i mean who the
hell knows but anything in that other category is
astonishing i think one very important thing that
most people in government who study this seem
to sort of have a consensus on that the public
might not realize is the idea that there is a
separation between substrate and signature when
it comes to ufos and there might be a difference
in terms of the way somebody perceives it and some
underlying sort of proto architecture and so if
we have been seeing these things for thousands
of years we've been seeing them in different
forms different forms and maybe different sources
these days since our technology platforms are
so high to generate effects they could mimic
and our detection platforms are so well
advanced so we could see a lot more
then it really is a zoo of options and
possibilities and so for example for the tic
tac videos that are so well known lou elizondo
was behind releasing those videos i remember
seeing them in the pentagon before they were
released but there are more videos some are better
how much better well as good as you
could probably want if you showed me
pieces of a craft and you guaranteed me somehow
that it came from outside the solar system my
first thought wouldn't be technology it would be
physics because everything is so far away from us
other than our solar system that i would be
wondering well how did it get here when you look
at the civil war in the united
states it took place in the 1860s
within less than a hundred years we were dropping
fusion devices from jet aircraft less than a
hundred years less than a single lifetime it
means that we almost had a nuclear civil war
and it was a very near miss now what separated the
1860s which looked like antiquity to many of us
from 1952 when we have the first fusion weapon
explode it was changes in our understanding of
the physical world that means anytime you have a
profound physical insight post i don't know 1940s
you have to ask yourself what pandora's box
with a new physical insight potentially open and
i don't know why we're not more worried
about this i think because we've been
failing at physics for 50 years we've gotten
out of the habit of thinking physics is really
dangerous and you have to track every
single important physicist because any
change in our physical understanding
of the universe can unlock holy hell
were there actually updates in physics maybe
mid-century that were not disclosed to the public
another puzzle we would love to have cleared
up is an understanding of the role of aerospace
companies as holders of potentially basic
scientific knowledge not shared with the
academic world is it possible it seems very
wrong to me may be wrong but it's um true
it is true you believe it's true yeah i know
it's true you know that there's physics knowledge
held by aerospace companies that is not
there certainly is materials knowledge
materials well okay materials which
involves topological physics or whatever
okay but fundamental physics as opposed to
you know condensed matter or right certainly
aerospace corporations have knowledge in the
uap area that specifically are sequestered by
against foia because of proprietary appreciables
which the whole thing was set up to be that way
on purpose right but the idea that there would
be fundamental physical knowledge that would be
housed in an aerospace company and not shared with
the physics community there is no evidence of that
no evidence for it i'm not that i know of and i
wouldn't that doesn't mean it's not the case but
that would be this crazy egregious it would
change our entire concept of who we are if
somebody kept fundamental physics secret in
the years since we became capable of exploding
fusion devices i would grab a pitchfork and a
tiki torch and i would march on the national
science foundation right right i don't
i still can't believe that that's true
it would only be if it were the case that
in fact we have mastered anti-gravity
and they're being built by aerospace corporations
then new physics would have to be involved is
what is called the golden age of general
relativity tied to these topics that is
there was this bizarre surge of activity in
general relativity between you know i would say
the time of einstein in the 50s or something like
that there wasn't a ton of development in gr and
then suddenly there was this explosion there was
a well this explosion uh there there's a famous uh
series came out in miami herald and other
newspapers in probably the 50s the author was
talbert and he did a series where he found
out that a number of aerospace engineering
companies were suddenly interested in anti-gravity
and that people like dewitt on up and down
really top level physicists were suddenly getting
grants to look at the idea of antigravity for
example the gravity essay came along the gravity
research foundation foundation right and so
it looked like it's going to be a big explosion
but anyway then it all sort of quieted down and
i could take two implications of that and that is
it quieted down because nobody ever got anywhere
or quieted it down because it did
get somewhere and it went black
my understanding is that there were really
twin loci of activity one of which surrounds a
gravity research foundation in new boston new
hampshire and i guess that was the work of babson
and the story is sort of not really very plausible
that his sister had drowned in a pond or something
to that effect and so he had gravity as his sworn
enemy um you know this story no i had not heard
this oh yeah so babson contacted lewis whitten who
was coming out of johns hopkins and then oddly a
similarly named individual named bainson with
some sort of tobacco or air conditioning fortune
reaches out to bryce dewitt and asks whether
he will found an institute at the university
of north carolina chapel hill right for the study
of physical fields and particularly focusing on
gravity particularly focused on gravity somehow
dewitt has the courage to answer this essay
contest in the other silo and destigmatizes it
so there was money to be had but nobody wanted
to touch it because of fear of ridicule from
their colleagues and then there's a famous
gravity conference at the university of north
carolina chapel hill that sort of kicks a lot
of this off it's a tremendous flurry
of activity at a time when anti-gravity
was trying to break into respectability at a
minimum we know that the glenn martin company
where martin was an early pioneer i think
from the time of the wright brothers
that the glenn martin company becomes martin
marietta later becomes lockheed martin so
that word martin is coming all the way through was
employing i believe lewis whitton edward whitton's
father to do anti-gravity research somehow
tied up with wright-patterson air force base
in ohio and the johns hopkins university
in baltimore maryland so there's something
about aerospace in the 1950s and sort of post
manhattan project era that's pretty potent
and we're confused by this why was solomon left
schetz the great topologist recruited to be
involved with louis whitten and to have an entire
non-linear group working on mathematics that then
gets moved to brown university when i believe that
these programs are sunsetted so they get spun off
back into the academic ecosystem i don't know
what any of this is so you have top physicists
working on crazy stuff and physicists don't
know the story yeah right yeah it's like i knew
it because it was weird it stood out the lewis
whitten edward whitton story has never been fully
made sense the world's most brilliant physics
mind of our time is the son of the country's
most prominent and important anti-gravity
researcher of the 1950s do you think that string
theory which edwin worked on is intentionally a
bridge to nowhere i have privately said to you
that string theory was a very odd development
because it both allowed physics to proceed as
if it was doing something new while breaking no
new ground in the physical world in which we live
i don't really know if you were trying to stagnate
the field string theory is pretty brilliant
if there was knowledge that allowed you to
to traverse the cosmos in other words if you
could render einstein's theory effective the way
einstein rendered newton's theory non-fundamental
but an effective theory derived
from einstein's theory in a limit
to not share that knowledge with the
physics community would be seen as gross
academic and intellectual malpractice yeah if
somebody had that level of knowledge i mean
the best that uh you know we could do in the
in the a-tip program was say okay let's accept
einstein's gr as being the theory okay even
though there are all kinds of arguments
right subscribe by gr you mean general relativity
general relativity and for this subject area for
the uap subject area as far as as we've gone is
to say okay suppose i treat general relativity
einstein's equations for general relativity
the way i would treat maxwell's equations for
electromagnetism if we could manipulate variables
and einstein's equations the way we manipulate
variables in maxwell's equations you
would see certain kinds of things
which tend to match claimed observations of
uap phenomena somewhere there's a missing key
for how you can do manipulation of those
variables in einstein's equations without
having to have a black hole in your pocket are you
talking about the idea that you want to promote
constance to field content to be
actual physical fields that can
vibrate and live and move yes i would say so but
then you have the quantum mechanical consequences
when you promote something to field content you
break it you bought it you've got a lot of uh
you've got fluctuations and uncertainty principles
and it contributes to all sorts of uh processes
and sometimes you get you know explosions of
terms of series things stop converging and
things can get quite bad is that something that
you feel you've handled well at a certain level
how can we describe in layman's terms the idea
of promoting a constant like the gravitational
constant into a field variable so a very kind
of helpful actual analogy used for me who's a
i'm a total idiot when it comes to this stuff
is a circle and pi being a constant you know the
area of a circle is pi r squared uh and so if the
circle had bumps in it or if it was topologically
different in some way pi wouldn't be pi pi would
sort of be more variable in such circumstances
something that you thought was a constant
turns out to be variable when considered in a
larger space of possibilities likewise
if i ask what is the temperature in this
room i'm feeling a little bit chilly and you
might say oh i think the temperature is 64.
but then we might find out that in fact the room
varies between 63 degrees and the 69 degrees in a
different corner of the room so something that you
thought was a number like we just we had inflation
estimates of 6.8 and then 7.0 percent and i
was very angry about that because my claim was
that you should report inflation on various maps
the way you show the temperatures in the country
on a temperature map with gradients and isotherms
and what have you if you do that to numbers like
for example the gravitational constant that
constant could be the value of a function
and if it was the value of a function and
then that function became quantum mechanical
you would have to treat it quantum mechanically
it's not cheap to replace a number by a function
or a field we have an entire planet pulling us
towards these couches and yet when the interview
is done we will get up from these couches
defeating an entire planet the weakness of gravity
is one of the great mysteries of
our lives it's inconceivably weak
true enough yeah and if we accept
gravit einstein's general relativity as
again i'm not quite sure how much of it you
you take issue with it would seem that we are
either prisoners here or that we have to lean
so heavily on time dilation or we would have to
amass levels of energy i mean your point is
yeah we can't we can't do it from what we know
for sure okay so then the idea is
we'd have to have something wrong
in gr yeah something is at least
missing okay maybe jar is okay
as it goes but we're missing something
that would have the effect of
manipulating the variables in there that
we can't do with any reasonable engineering
approach well so far as i know there's only
one analog that even smells vaguely like
this in electromagnetism aaronoff and bohm
argued that if you pass an electron beam
around a solenoid and pass the current through
it if it was perfectly insulated you would have
no e and b fields out that is electric electric
and magnetic fields outside of the solenoid but
yet you'd get a phase shift in the electron beam
is it circled this is what's known as a holonomia
effect you guys talked about this incredible
experiment called the bohm iron off effect can
you show me the actual experiment imagine you have
some sort of an electron gun and you have a beam
of electrons and they hit a first mirror
so that they bounce off of that mirror
you have a next mirror in the form of a diamond
and i'm looking down on my table top experiment
and i've got some sort of a detector over here
if i have a wire here that's heavily heavily
insulated i can imagine running a current
through this wire the solenoid in the center
and the e and b fields would be dead
equal to zero because of the insulator
however when i pass current through
this wire mysteriously the detector
picks up different patterns of self-interference
of the phase of the electron function
in other words this setup can detect whether
there's current passing through the wire despite
near perfect insulation that was what
was so frightening in the late 50s
is that we were discovering that it
wasn't the electromagnetic fields at all
that were really the important actor in the
electromagnetic story we thought we understood
electromagnetism from the time of maxwell but
clearly the electromagnetic four potential
was really the main actor do we understand the
nature of the electromagnetic for potential or
is it just this sort of geometrically i think we
have a very good handle okay and so you mentioned
the higgs field looking like something like
analogous to like a wine bottle what would the
electromagnetic four potential geometrically look
like well it looks like a version of the escher
staircase or the penrose stairs in effect those
stairs would be something like we would call them
horizontal subspaces the weird feature of going
around a circuit and always going up the stairs
and yet never climbing in height that would
be what we would call a holonomia effect due
to curvature paradox and you can go way
beyond that so there are all kinds of
toroidal geometries for example where you have
no em fields whatsoever but you have strong
vector scalar fields and since you have
no lorentz force in the absence of e and b
then how can you detect them well you detect
them by the by any kind of quantum detector they
can detect phase shifts can detect the vector
scalar potential even in the absence of fields
so there's a whole engineering approach
concerning which i have two patents by the way
and have started a new company that involves only
dealing with vector and scalar potentials when you
are trying to come up with this analogy between
electromagnetism and general relativity to
explain some of these effects are you dealing
only with the leviticuvida connection of the
metric as einstein did or are you considering i'm
basically dealing with the metric coefficients
by postulating a dielectric vacuum whose
dielectric constant values for say epsilon
mu the permeability and permittivity of the vacuum
can be manipulated and once you manipulate those
you're manipulating c which is one over square
root scrutiny epsilon and so once you begin
to manipulate c then you can change effects
associated with all of the and so you could
with this with this polarizable vacuum
approach which i published in physics journal
you can get all of the quote tests
of general relativity and so on so
so the fact that you might be
able to pursue that further
by taking into account the fact that underlying
electromagnetism is is vacuum fluctuations
which have the effect of controlling
the value for epsilon and mu so then
you say okay well if i want to go over
to general relativity maybe i can control
the underlying values for the metric coefficients
so there are various mathematical approaches to
kind of pushing einstein's equations to be not
quite einsteinian so we're not talking about this
this is what has been confusing to me there's
a question of accepting the einsteinian prison
or trying to do to einstein what einstein did to
newton and then say there's a more fundamental
theory and what you're really saying is that
you're trying to come up with a more fundamental
theory than general relativity in which many of
the things that are hard coded are in fact vacuum
expectation values that are only discernible
within the theory something like that yeah
there are consequences after impact you have a
theory that is a greater it's more expansive than
einstein einstein would be you can locate einstein
with you can locate einstein within it and so
does any of the stuff in geometric unity your
theory dovetail with what you're seeing in terms
of observables with ufos and uaps there are two
strong versions of geometric unity in one case
you put an extra six dimensions as time dimensions
into into the mix and so one plus six is seven
and then you've got four extra spatial dimensions
four plus the three spatial dimensions we already
know is seven so you'd have what we would
call a split signature metric seven and
seven seven times seven space the other way of
of effectively gluing these extra dimensions is
in is to flip them so you'd have four extra time
dimensions that would be five time dimensions in
total versus nine spatial with three that we
know plus six new ones in either case though
you're talking about multiple temporal dimensions
and even physicists rarely talk about multiple
temporal dimensions because it completely
breaks our paradigm of what we might call
hamiltonian dynamics the idea that you you can
take any situation in space and then propagate
it through time to get the future when you
have more than one time dimension you have
more than one future you have no arrow of time you
have a whirlpool of time for the first additional
time dimension then you have a right hand rule of
time and so this arrow of time becomes something
you would call a time orientation and then the
weird horrible thing about that if i may use the
board yeah go for it when you have more than one
temporal dimension you now have a new possibility
that you've never considered which is you could
go back into this extra extra time dimension
and find yourself at an earlier event without
ever having to retrace time steps you wouldn't
have to run time backwards we don't really
know how to think about these things very well
they lead to something which is called ultra
hyperbolic equations and we don't have a ton
of focus or skill around these sorts of problems
one of my biggest concerns is that if geometric
unity turns out to be true we don't know what it
means to be able to hack extra temporal dimensions
that's a big concern i mean it would probably
explain some of this uh at least observably
faster than speeding travel see that's the
thing there is no faster than light travel
and we have to train people away from saying you
think we have faster than light travel there may
be something that would appear to be faster which
temporal dimension hacking which sort of makes it
because a lot of these uaps seem to sort of
mater materialize and dematerialize it will
look there's certainly scope for pattern
matching if you have things like dark chemistry
dark light if you have a multiple spatial
and temporal dimensions beyond what we know
the concern though is we don't know whether
they're accessible the interest and the fear
has to do with the idea that maybe somebody else
knows the answer to this and they aren't human
so that one's called the time warp i can't
believe you never saw rocky wore a picture
no i know it's a cult classic have you seen it
speaking of cults how weren't you in scientology
oh year years years back i checked into it
because at that time we were doing you know
setting up a remote viewing program we were
checking into everything silver mind control
scientology whatever whatever i thought some
of the techniques were definitely of value but
i disconnected from them in their mid 70s
or whatever i think what we need to do is
we need to talk about pseudoscience and stigma
and its weaponization and its use so the first
thing i want to ask you about is does our
government have a protocol to wield stigma
as a tool for keeping its programs secret is the
is the government so certainly there are parts of
the government who consider that to be their job
is there language for the manipulation of stigma
to discourage people from under undertaking
scientific investigations that might lead them
into an area of security concern there
is a language in there there are certain
operations that sort of have that effect but
there are people who are trying to get around
you you personally have been the target of a great
deal of directed stigma it would seem to me do you
have a sense that you've been that your career has
been directed by manufactured signals certainly
there was manufactured stigma and control we've
had people actually shut down a piece of a program
on the basis that american taxpayer dollars
should not be spent on pursuing demonic technology
you know denshian yeah okay i was friendly with
dan sheehan and admired his work taking on all
these crazy cases against the government
not knowing he had any interest in ufo uap
there was an attempt to discredit him through
stigma because of his interest in the iran contra
matter right with the christic institute and so
i think he was fed wrong information probably
so that he'd swing at a bad pitch and that's why i
was very interested at the weaponization of stigma
and whether or not you were party to
any knowledge of how that is carried
out so as to keep these programs no i've
never other than being the effect of them
you do want to keep things like the loch
ness monster and spoon bending away from
the ufo conversation if you can and there's
this tremendous force in this world to say
well if we're opening our minds to ufos my aunt
lived in this house that was haunted for 27 years
like i don't want to hear this i don't want to
listen to the fact that your aunt's house is
wanted now the thing that goes against what i'm
saying is something like cattle mutilation so
either somebody is an amazing sadistic animal
hoaxer or you have to open the uap story to
them communicating something by their decision to
study cattle or leave cattle as presents for us or
who knows what well that brings up this really
weird place called skinwalker ranch in in utah
i think it's the near the utah basin and you
enter you went to basin and so there's a myth
that involves the ute tribe fighting the
navajos and i believe the navajo is sick
these skin walkers these sorts of youths were
collaborating with the united states government
the navajo weren't so happy and so they cursed
this particular spot of land with skin waters
and the family that used to live on the land would
see tons of cattle mutilations they'd experience
all sorts of paranormal things bigelow buys
it bigelow is obviously very interested in the
you know uap phenomena and now it seems like it's
this place where they do all sorts of experiments
they have anomalous electromagnetic effects on the
grounds so what do you what do you make of this
something is wildly off this stuff is interesting
enough that it should be attracting scientists
and the scientists who are attracted to this
should be debunking the living crap out of this
if it's some dime store bs but the absence of
scientists is itself puzzling yeah partially
due to stigma partially due to the fact that
nobody wants to get sucked into some low rent
uh horror movie where two kids see a creature
in the black lagoon and they try to tell the
townspeople and no one believes that yeah the
question is is the stigma manufactured or is
the stigma sigma because all this stuff is [ __
] we're pretty clear that's a lot of stigma is
manufactured so the government talks about an
internal documents image cheapening and what's
the context in which image cheapening is has been
used or famously against a woman who was a leading
actress in hollywood named jean seberg and the
fbi is how we learned about image cheapening
planted a story with a woman named joyce haber in
the los angeles times that the baby that she was
carrying was in fact not her french husbands but
was in fact the baby of a black panther they drove
her to suicide they drove her to miscarriage first
and then 10 years of suicide attempts but the
key point is our government does not necessarily
blink trying to turn your reputation into absolute
garbage if you get close to its treasured sources
and methods yeah and that is not compatible
with saying that we have something that we don't
understand menacing our military its airspace and
our nuclear sites very strange it's hard because
it's clear that there's some element of the psyop
here and then it's hard to sort of separate there
has to be scion there has to be because project
blue book yes and the pentagon report do not
seem to be particularly compatible in other words
it appears that either we were lying then that
there's nothing to see yeah and we're telling the
truth now or we're telling the truth then that
there's nothing to see and we're lying now that
ufos are here what i find really interesting about
the blue book history is edward j rupelt was sort
of running blue book he was an air force general
and he seemed pretty open-minded to the phenomena
being real especially after kind of empirical
inquiry and then in 1952 something very bizarre
happened which is there were a bunch of spottings
of ufo spottings around washington dc in july 1952
and then there's a there's a caltech physicist
named h.p robertson who forms kind of a panel
and the conclusion of the panel is basically the
government needs to systematically downplay the
importance of the phenomena and if the public were
to know the truth it would touch off mass hysteria
every single head of blue book from that point
forward from 52 to 69 when it ended uh became
progressively more kind of anti-ufo and so the
question is is this you know typical cia leaked
dock to lead us off the trail and is it [ __ ]
or um did was manufactured stigma created between
1952 and 1969 actually blue book maybe initially
was kind of open too what happened in 1952
the dc ufo sightings in in july yeah i was
going to say the oh what else the first
h-bomb h-bomb teller yeah a tele-rule on design
yeah so the concern that i have is that in 1952
we sent off a signal just wait just the way
when north korea detonates a nuclear device
it sends seismic waves through the earth it can't
stop sending information outside of the country
i think in 1952 we sent a signal to the
cosmos which is that we're very very close
to being in possession of root level knowledge to
take a software metaphor we are about to become
root which is terrifying if you're a system
administrator that you've got a hacker that's
about to get full control of the system it's
like your edge.org question which was uh what
happens when we discover our own source code does
something unprecedented happen there's something
unprecedented happen when man first aliens well
people didn't understand what the question was
though it was the final edge question and instead
of giving an answer he asked us to give a question
the concern that i have is that in 1952
what if there was someone there to hear
what we said in the pacific if there was
something or someone there to hear us
they probably heard us as saying we're
on the verge of being able to come visit
that's terrifying the stargate program which you
ran which is a government sort of psychic spy
program ran from 1972 to 1995 and it ended in
1995 under ed may and you know a lot of people
after that said that it wasn't all that effective
see that's part of the uh the stigmatization well
i was just reading skin walkers at the pentagon
you know where it talks about atip and and i guess
yeah awesome these two programs uh and it
looks like remote viewing is sort of again
revived i guess i don't think it ever really died
so so the question is yeah is that is that um
creating a stigma because you're bundling in
parapsychology um which might be pseudoscience
with the ufo stuff or or is it is there some
connection between those two things because
there seems like a lot of overlap in terms of
the people interested in the parapsychology stuff
and the people interested in the ufo stuff as
jacquefully and eric davis put out a very nice
paper of six levels of uap phenomena which range
all the way from nuts and bolts at the bottom
to spiritual or metaphysical aspects at the
top and everything kind of in between uh
can you can you break that down for us so what
are the six levels and how how are the nuts and
bolts at all tethered to spiritual phenomena well
actually the nutsables things but then some of
the consequences of the nuts and bolts things
are changes in what we call ordinary reality
which people who are the effect of
might claim that that's some kind of
paranormal thing because that's the only
word they can come up with to describe it so
there are paranormal things and then it's sort
of a gradation from there in the things that are
purely non-physical but supposedly quote possibly
psychokinesis i have to admit i have such a strong
visceral negative reaction and it's very
interesting because as jesse will tell you
jesse was interested in this ufo uap stuff and
i couldn't be in the room with it i just i hated
the topic it always felt like garbage to me and i
found out that i was apparently wrong about that
the federal government is certainly tracking
this it doesn't make any sense to me still
that we have all these sensors and we don't have
great video all over the place i don't know how
these uaps you know could possibly evade all of
the cameras that we have outside of the government
and we have no conclusive proof but assume okay i
was wrong about that at some level because we are
now discussing this in the open so i'm willing to
start to revise everything that is protected by my
desire to throw up right there's this shows
the the stigma programs it was on me right
i'm being honest and open i still carry the sense
of i cannot believe i'm sitting here discussing
visitations from some intelligent life
that we don't understand potentially
uh but okay so you know a scientist should be
able to consider these things and i'm not going
to be the prisoner of the stigma but i am going
to ask you guys av lobe at harvard setting up his
thing to pursue it but but this is a really
important question if if you could set up a ton
of sensors how would we know what we're seeing at
high sample size if right now we don't know what
we're seeing at low sample size and i think one
question i'd have for you where i'd challenge you
is is is there some physics that we will figure
out in the future around certain ability around
certain people's ability to see these things
and that sounds really pseudoscientine crazy
but most of the people involved in the
program seem to think that there's something
around that and as far as as far as uh you know
why aren't we getting really clear pictures
i mean i'm not i wouldn't say that that's
necessarily the case that we're not getting
you may be getting really clear but you're an
average guy with an iphone let's say the craft is
there but it's manipulating the space-time metric
so you're just going to get fuzzy outlines because
light is being bent in various ways around
the craft and so on so you're going to get
a lousy picture it doesn't mean because it isn't
really there i would imagine i would be drowning
in high quality video and it's it's a great
puzzle to me that i'm sitting here discussing
this i can't even solve this puzzle and then
the related puzzle having to do with remote
viewing or anything like that is if i take
a materialist perspective that the world is
created of material whose laws can be
understood and you put me in and you or say
in two lead-lined rooms and we try to make sure
that there's no way that any of the known forces
or matter fields can communicate you know my mind
goes to you know are we claiming that neutrinos
are carrying the information are we claiming
that there's a new force are we claiming that um
the world isn't material or the entanglement
is more see this is spread out and and well
entanglement would be one of those things like
beaumaranov and casimir which has the appearance
of being spooky right in other words if you had
a culture in which magicians possessed scientific
knowledge they would have an edge over everyone
else because they could explain they could
predict the bone marrow and off effect see i can
i can manipulate this electron beam without even
having any possibility of touching it right so
this gets to the issue of advanced science being
indistinguishable from magic and then the idea
that this is in some sense held by a particular
silos over other silos i mean as a scientist i
either want to laugh or my blood boils well i mean
that's kind of a justifiable position for
example early on in the cia remote viewing
program that i set up at sri i was asked to
check out claims of a psychic english swan ingo
had done experiments at city college in new
york under professor gertrude schmeider she
had set up thermistors and from across the room he
could make the temperatures go up and down and so
i took this claimed psychic invite
him out to sri to see what he could do
we had the cork detector and so it was basically
a quantum chip inside a new metal magnetic
shielding inside of steel dewar for electrical
shielding inside of superconducting shielding the
requirement being that nothing could affect this
thing from the outside so we want to see if you
can affect it he affected it unequivocally
100 percent you had this slow oscillation
what he did was he stopped the oscillation now
what turned out to be even more quote magical was
when we asked him you know how do you know what to
do and he said well all i did was look inside and
then he drew out how things were related inside
that never been published and it turned out that
they were accurate and so it was when i wrote
all that up and circulated around that's when the
cia came knocking at my doorstep and they said oh
we've been looking for you and i said you know why
would i do he said well the russians have been
spending millions of dollars at their best
institutes with their best people for years no
scientists in america even believes there's such
a thing as psychokinesis or esp or whatever and
you happen to do this experiment and so you know
we graduated from there to having remote viewing
of super secret facilities and project titles
hidden in safes that's how the whole program got
started it ended up being a 20-year 20 million
dollar program i don't know what to make of all of
this i don't think any of this to me sounds real
now that said you could imagine a one-time
backwards upgrade saying we happen to know about
aliens for a long period we've kept it secret we
figured out the physics the physics has different
fields we're actually able to use this we
call it psychic phenomena and so we don't
have to give our secrets away you could
imagine a complete reworking of reality
without that real working of
reality i would say this is bs
what would what would be your best guess assuming
you think because you have levered a lot of your
life into parapsychology and you've levered a lot
of your life into physics how would you reconcile
physics with parapsychology which i realize
is a you know a 64 million dollar question but
what would be your best guess do you have any
theory well we we it can definitely rule out
that it's em brain waves because we put some
of our remote viewers on submarines and took
them to the bottom of the ocean and we got
some of our best results in fact the remote
viewers in the submarine said boy it's really
quiet here you know so yeah i mean if i think
about it in terms of telescopy right for every
long-range field we now have a telescope so we
have optical and radio telescopes for photons
we have neutrino telescopes which is actually
matter rather than force we know that
neutrinos can zip through a planet and
not even notice it was there and then we have
gravitational telescopes in the form of ligo
and the weak force is going to be super short
range super wheat because it's effectively massive
and we have vector scalar forces and em uh
sorry when i think about e m i'm thinking you're
including vector and scatter potential hell yes
nobody nobody okay everybody's moved on to vector
i don't even want to call it vector and scale
just potential they're different connections
on fiber bundles and then you have this issue of
gravitation with ligo right so we can we can pick
up super long-range stuff from colliding black
holes by now measuring gravity waves gluons aren't
going to do much for you quarks aren't going to
do much for you these are the fields that really
give us information from distant galaxies and then
there's the question of are you talking about a
material world that we don't yet know or material
effects that is part of the material where we do
where the somehow we have it for example i
mean you have all these but you know the usual
issues about it not being useful to communicate
information you have this bizarre non-locality
of entanglement but you can't use it for ftl for
faster than light communication right right so if
two two events are space-like separated uh you're
not so far as we know there's no means of tricking
uh an intention of controlling it
right yeah so this is what it happens
well i'm i'm struggling with this to be to be
honest to say just to put it mildly and i don't
like losing to jesse it's horrible losing him on
ufos i don't want to lose it to him a second time
but i guess what the question is really you don't
have a lot of room to move you either have to
postulate new physics you have to say that there
are new effects like iron off bone that we didn't
understand during the physics that we already
know but we haven't unpacked them yet or you have
to say this isn't material that there's there
they're angels and demons and spirits that uh
that don't conform to our understanding everything
here is bold there's nothing that simply yeah we
we saw this effect it was robust so for me i've
looked into the stargate stuff and i've talked to
you a decent amount my conclusion is that there is
something there and yet it feels like there are a
lot of near misses as well and it seems very hard
to instrumentalize and scale up there was plenty
of times when we produced really good data and to
be fair there were plenty of times when it failed
if you don't understand the causal mechanism then
you're going to have repeatability issues and so
is there like a part of the brain like so
like the penrose thing which is probably wrong
but you know this idea that he wrote in the
emperor's new mind that the microtubules um
i guess that was the follow-up of the emperor's
new mind with hameroff the microtubule is our
quantum sensor that collapses the wave function
into an eigenstate yeah i have some sympathy for
going along that direction so you think there's
some sort of quantum sensor in the in the brain
and do you have a top candidate for the specific
structure well i can't rule it out i mean they
certainly started from a very fundamental thing is
and that is if you can get rid of consciousness by
using an anesthetic then however you're doing
it must have something to do with consciousness
if this effect exists why is it classified and
why is the government where is it in the stock
market well there are remote viewers who use it
on the stock market so like the classic the good
example is that you guys tried to start a hedge
fund you know just trading silver futures and
you made something like 260 k and i think scaling
it beyond that seemed to be a big big challenge
it was only a challenge because i didn't have the
time to do it i mean our particular thing i gotta
i mean i want to be polite but i also want
to be aggressive my experience with money
tells me that you can win over any skeptic
very quickly if you can just shove millions
of dollars into their pocket by arbitraging
their skepticism okay let me let me tell you
how to do it and you just go do it it's really
easy actually i know some people with capital
okay just have somebody pick a couple of objects
have them label them mark it up mark it down
and they're going to show you the object the
following day depends on what the market does
and then you do your best to generate a
description then based on that description they
can go back and the next day on the average you
get get your money we ran 70 30 instead of 50 50.
and so it's two steps forward one step
backward two steps four what's that
that's how we downed in class that's how we
got this 260 dollars which is why did you stop
well the reason i stopped was i was already
working uh frankly 24 hours a day on on training
the army intelligence officers and so i was
exhausted after 30 days of doing this sorry
but if you want to do it feel free to do it i've
told you how to do it so you can just go do it
okay now i'm having a very surreal experience
for a large portion of the conversation
you seem absolutely cogent coherent
well-informed well-spoken and then
there's this part that just doesn't make any
effing sense and this is the part that doesn't
make any effing sense rolling up in a bugatti
to your gulf stream to fly to your island
is a very powerful argument that you know what
you're talking about bitcoin community has been
insulted by the economists they've been laughed
at by financiers and they have a phrase which i
really detest but i think you need to hear it and
it's called number go up and number go up means
that when you're talking to an esteemed professor
of economics or finance and they're telling you
that you're an idiot and you say well why
don't you visit me at the yellowstone club
i'll i'll send the jet around for you number go
up is an incredibly powerful argument because
of human greed and avarice okay i think we
made this point what do you think about you
know when we hear that they're unidentified aerial
phenomena that's one thing but then when somebody
like bob lazar comes out and says that he worked
at a place called s4 which is a part of area 51
on alien reproduction vehicles literally reverse
engineering crashed ufos what are we supposed to
make of things like that well i mean i'm skeptical
to the degree behind the scenes we can check on
his clearances and so on i have reason to be
skeptical so i can't absolutely rule things out
because everything can be manipulated sure you've
looked at the magnesium bismuth piece from roswell
which was i guess a grandfather who was a colonel
in the roswell cleanup collection this was sort of
left in the safe and the grandson found it you do
material analysis on this bismuth magnesium piece
the magnesium ratios were way off i mean not even
close to being natural it can micro size wave guys
channels you know to me only data counts have no
idea whether the story of somebody finding in his
grandfather's diary and so on is true or not so
the only data i have is this piece of material
and does it have any unusual properties that that
are interesting well i can check that out and i
found out that it did have this miniaturization of
waveguide channels well below wavelength which is
quite an accomplishment but once
you realize how many materials work
you can do that so so that was interesting
i definitely believe that many people have
been through the experience of contact
whether or not that's completely in their head or
a government induced hypnotic state or who knows
what i no longer believe this is just a bunch
of people looking for attention well it's good
that's what i'm saying that that makes it the most
interesting thing in the world because it's either
the best if you're the force ranked psyops it's
up there in terms of you know the the intersection
between interesting and effective it's good how
we really appreciate you being here eric thank
you for co-hosting you were a great uh co-host you
asked a lot of questions that i could not jesse
i really appreciate what you're doing trying to
get this issue out in front of the public and
get it taken seriously and putting it on it you
know it's best foot forward awesome thank you
perfect conversation though it's always very
exciting to you know delve into these things
so yeah i think so too and i think there are
a lot of loose threads but uh to be content
with a lot of loose threads yeah we'll
chase them all okay sounds good thanks